Received Mon. 5th Dec. 1988, TC A1 (54 left)

Monday fifth: A) Re sp. film for micro-copies: A unit here has to do a lot of
docs by photography. What does a camera, flash + stand which handles this film
cost & will you be able to supply. Also automatic film advance. B. Tried to use
KC program on an Olivetti PC & on Bondwell PC. Did not succeed? Can you hazard
why we had probs? Have acces to Bondwell in Sollys & Olivetti at Graces &
looking into how we can pass deciphered docs so that the print productn unit
can attend to printing & doing stencils etc themselves. 3. Hope you ensure
January 8th statement reaches us fast. Any idea when John comes in Jan? Waiting
to hear from Oscar so that we can decide what we have to send, how much etc &
then against what you have for us, decide whether we need a sp. courier for
Xchange of disks etc. (4) Any news re Maureen's address & progress re Staley +
response re JL? E. Need a few more books + variations of it for concealing docs
etc when sending couriers internally. 6. Years back Albie did a translation &
adaptation of a Portuguese booklet "If you are arrested, cde.." I am sure Sue &
Co have it stored in their files. Could you obtain same & put it on disk for
us? More follows (PS to 2nd & 3rd part of this: Also NB that we feel that enemy
is strongly monitoring GM's activities) More

Received Mon. 5th Dec. 1988, TC A1

Part 2: In course of our work at Graces & Sollys we picked up that GM had taken
initiative to create ANC u.g. in various regions. 1st hint came from CR who
said that GM had put together group to establish authentic lines of
communicatns with HQ. He put together Dall Omar (CT), CR & Khalima (Jhb), Xundu
(EC) & Diliza Mji for this. Meanwhile our progress at Graces reached a stage
where we felt we had the major pieces for putting together proper RPMC with +-
30 units under it at the start. One major piece missing is Paul G whose network
seems in some trouble & hence he has taken cover deeper u.g. At this stage we
decided we needed to see & draw in Diliza M. Have since met him twice. He
raised prob re GM initiative to create u.g. in all regions per authorisation
from Reg. DM stated that the group (same as above) has not done anything
concrete as yet beyond trying to set up broad grouping in Graces to plan task;
that the national unit (as above) is due to meet around 12th Dec for report
backs & planning how to create the u.g. In this regard DM felt he would have
probs if he did not report DM's involvement with us to GM unit & GM in
particular. Asked how he should handle this. Also confirmed that he too
concerned re Xundu role. Some more

Received Mon. 5th Dec. 1988, TC A1

3rd part: In this regard, the grouping in which DM is involved at Graces is
made up of cdes of whom all save one are already in ANC structures we relate to
tho each does not know of the other's involvement in this structure. 2ndly, we
feel need to avoid crossed lines with GM initiative (even K at Sollys is in our
structures there). 3rdly would like to be sure that GM does not confide details
of structure at Graces, who's who in it, to the national unit he has put
together etc. DM accepted our advice not to report his contact with us pending
his seeing Reg & Robin. That after he has seen you maybe formula could be
worked out where Reg could advise GM that progress is being made at Grace's (&
Solly's) in creating u.g.; that at this stage security requires these be kept
separate & that therefore he should concentrate his efforts in other regions
esp EC & Border. Now DM indicated he would be in Harare from 12th Dec till
after Xmas & that during this stay most convenient dates for him would be
19th/20th Dec; if required he could get to Lusaka from Harare to meet Reg &/or
Robin for discussion & guidance; that during stay in Harare he can be contacted
via Stanley Mabizela. Pls do all to see him & advise us of your views etc.
Matter urgent as we wnat to ensure creation of RPMC also eliminates divisions
at Graces & gathers disparate networks into a unified, viable & above all
active force. Plus we have to keep up momentum of processes we have
unleashed.Warmest greetings. All for now  

Sent Wed. 7th dec. 1988, TC A1

WED. From Paul: (1) Linking up with J, hereafter called Susanne: Robin says
he's +ve towards idea if linkup made without revealing identities &
accomodation & personal support network. That of course means person who has
first meeting with S, which would have to be personal meeting, should not have
met her  previously. And on no account should she know that you're there. (2)
Maureen's no. is 724 3667 (repeat 724 3667) in Jhb. We've just received it.
Please contact soonest as arrangement made by Enrico to meet her in Vz middle
of this month. When successful contact made cancel Enrico arrangement & inform
us accordingly. (3) Gemma received presents & TK. TK not undone yet because of
location & difficulty with eqpt. But in process of going down there with
everything to solve it. Meantime she's prepared communication to send you via
TC. This'll be sent in next transmission. !! From Ken: {1} Micro-filming: can
use any good 35mm camera & ordinary electronic flash. Best if you buy eqpt. in
SA. Will send instructions for process & special film next opportunity. {2} TC
& TK configured to work on LT only. This done for security reasons. If you want
TK for other computers, send details of configurations of such (ie. no. of disk
drives, size disks, memory etc) & I'll prepare/send. {3} Will get you Jan 8
statement asap but depends on Oscar getting it to Gill on time. Will prod
Oscar. {4} John next to Solly's end Jan. Have person going to Solly's around 28
Dec who can take disks. Can you arrange DLB or very safe meeting? Person going
on mission & later again to settle so if meeting it must be 100% safe. Pref
DLB. Let us know soon. ZZZ

Sent:Thurs 8th december;1988 TC A1

Part one of two;From Gemma :Harare 4 Dec 1988,sent as 2nd message on 7/12/88.  
Dearest Adam,  This message will have to reach you through TC as I am
experiencing some difficulty in undoing TK.I felt a compromise through TC
would be a good idea.  As you know,I have been very much out of my stride
since the 7th October when I was admitted to UTH after a road accident.I was
subsequently flown to Harare for Surgery.Fortunately the ribs have all healed
and so has the shoulder blade,and the pain in my arm and shoulder has at last
begun to lift,making me quite optimistic about the surgeons prediction.He
says that once I have the last two operations(on Dec 13 and June 1989) to
remove the screws from shoulder blade and arm and collar bone,I will regain
most of the mobility in that region.Robin assures me that you will be kept
informed through a copy of the surgeon's report,which Reggie has already
seen.The good thing is that I will overcome the limitations in current
mobility in my left arm through physiotherapy-also it is my left arm and not
my right one,thank goodness.  As you can imagine this has been a trauma and a
severe blow to the strides I was making in my PTA job.Suffice it to say for
now:Once I presented Bax with the technical evaluation of the system
developed by Geneva,and explained that on professional and political
principles,and even under threat of being sacked,I had refused in Geneva to
install that system,he put all his trust and confidence in me.Together with
Mengistu,my direct boss,Bax assigned me the task of redeveloping the entire
system from scratch for installation by the same deadline as originally
planned viz June 1989,for fear of losing face to the member states.Meer

Sent:Thurs 8th december;TC A1

Part two and last:Now I have lost 3 months and do not feel up to the same
intense momentum.  I understand that Geneva promised them an alternative
consultant but they said thay preffered to wait for me.That was in
November,though,whwn they expected me back in Lusaka in a couple of weeks.So
I do not know whether it is fair to the PTA not to advise them to get a new
consultant,even though I will be returning to Lusaka in January.  The good
news is that the children are here with me now.Milou had apparently taken the
accident badly,withdrawing into a shell.But now he is as chatty,bouyant and
provocative as ever.Joey is as usual full of bounce and excitement and they
never stop talking about you,including what they are going to do and say to
you when they next see you.Needless to say,we miss you very much indeed,and
hope you remain safe to return to us in one piece.  S is returning to your
end within a few weeks.Things went sour after you left.They were terribly
unhappy and she showed the same lack of initative and imagination and
complaining attitude we had noticed before you left.In a rational moment she
explained that she was too old to handle such boisterous yungsters and after
what they had been through with their own kids ,all they now wanted was peace
and quiet.The details of what triggered the final decision to leave are not
so important now.Her decision was actually made some time ago.It had just
been a question of waiting for your return.  So now I really do not know
about the PTA job-even if they decide to shift the deadline,which is
unlikely,I cant take it up because of the kids.Next time I will let you know
of the details of how things deteriorated.But L was a fiercely negative force
in all this.  I really look foward to undoing your message and hearing from
you again.  All our love  Gemma and the kids.All    

Sent Fri. 9th December, 1988, TC A1

Friday. Paul: 1.Minah:Her training hasn't begun. She's still here. We're of
view that we abandon that attempt, send her for disguises & infiltrate her.
Disguises can only take place in mid-Jan 1989. This means she could be with you
end Feb - mid-March. Are we in agreement?  2.Jabu is back here. 3.Exit point
used by us in SD is near exposure. We think system following up leads picked up
through Cliff episode. Making inquiries about houseowner. But on wrong side -
your side. 4.Robin keen to know how Richard faring? 5.Also requests messages
from organisations & individuals for Congress. Will it be wise? What
organisations & individuals? Remind Masha of article & GM. 6.Robin met Abdul &
Mulilo. 7.R&R response to your TK expected very soon.|| Ken: [1] Maureen's no.
I got from Oscar = Joburg 724 3667. Will check. [2] TR progress slow coz
special radio modems we were experimenting with not good enough. Back to square
one. Trying new type modems & experimenting with automatic system. Sorry slow
but must be perfect. [3] Just finished training 'Lennie' - new TC/TK operator
for Oscar who will take over from just before Xmas. Should help smooth
operations that end though system working very well now. [4] Will DLB/meeting
with person I mentioned be poss? Please advise soon. OUT

Received Sun. 11th Dec. 1988, TC A1

Sunday 11th. Ein: Thanks for Gemma letter. Two: SACOS were due to meet ANC but
it fell thro. They want to ensure the next meet does not fall thro & suggest it
should take place around 2nd week of Jan subject to proviso that 28th & 29th
Jan is not suitable. They await info re what dates are suitable for us. (3)
Difficult to arrange suitable DLB without going to SoXly's re Dec 28 person.
How long will person be at Solly's. This will enable us to see if we can make
safe arrangements. Will advise asap. Expecting to meet cde from Sollys today.
Likely Adam may be going that way after 18th Dec. Four: No. given for Maureen
is a greengrocer's shop. Maybe Enrico arranged for coding & has not decoded
correctly. Due to time etc suggest Enrico keep date in Vz & give us all details
re contact. (5): Unable to assure Robin that all conditions set re Suzanne can
be met here. Suggest we drop idea. We are in any event proceeding to set up
propa repro facilities at Solly's & Grace's. 6. Now have offset facilities at
Graces. Hence would appreciate two copies of Umseb plus Umseb set on disk for
this time. Have test photocopy + plate maker for offset & quality v. good. But
key is getting actual copies of Umseb. 7. What's holding up filling DLB at
Rahim's? Love 

Sent Mon. 12th Dec. 1988, TC A1

FIRST OF THREE. 11 Dec. Reggie & Robin to Adam: 1. Your report's remarkable for
both its scope & detail. It gives us a clear vision not only of immense
potential of Vula concept but also of its tremendous yield in terms of what's
been achieved within short period of time. To Adam & Sylvester, we say: BRAVO!
2. Re Zizi: (a)Thanks for your valuable insights. We'll do our best to give him 
comprehensive briefing. The document prepared for him for this purpose was read
to Xundu who took notes. We now hope document reaches him. And we intend to
keep him up-dated. (b)DM is being told to come to Lusaka where R & R will brief
him, inter alia, to inform Zizi that Reggie's set up an APC in Graces & will
handle the area direct. Whatever coordination Zizi may require with Graces
should be done through Masha & DM. (c)Has Masha been in touch with Zizi?
Shouldn't Adam find way at some stage to make contact with Zizi? (d)As soon as
we get chance we'll debrief Moss. (e)Your will note from (b) above that we use
acronym APC or RPC & not RPMC: This is deliberate. This is to emphasize point
that we're setting up POLITICAL leadership structures under which all
functions, including militrary, fall. 3. Madiba: Thanks for progress report.
Things appear to us to be reasonably in hand. SM should by now have reported to
you on nature of our discussions with UDF & COSATU. (a)The briefing you suggest
to Madiba is still under consideration. (b)A secure line (Madiba-Reggie-Madiba)
is welcome. (c)Maximum collective functioning of Rivonia group is vital
including special contact between Zizi & Madiba. (c)In addition to problems of
reception it's vital to launch & intensify release Madiba campaign etc. 4.
Gatsha: (a)Read report ex film. Contains useful outline of situation. (b)Agree
Madiba needs special briefing on Gatsha. Will do our best. (c)Please also get
briefing from SM on Gatsha & Natal situation. TWO NEXT

Sent Dec. 1988, TC A1

SECOND OF THREE. 5. Post elections: (a)AA Conf. Refer to SM. (b)Also get
briefing from SM on how we view link between possible release & on the ground a
legalisation of ANC by the masses. If SM too vague we'll set out our thoughts.
6. Your idea for Madiba's secretary is good one. 7. (a)Re 7.3 & 7.2.3 of your
report: we want to sound note of caution connected with implementation of this
side of your work. (b)Over the years armed actions have preceeded instead of
being preceeded by political organisation. They were intended & they served as
armed propaganda to stimulate mass mobilisation. We are past, or should be past
that stage now. (c)We need a sustained, ever growing & expanding militrary
offensive. But we're unable to take off in any significant manner. We hit one
disaster after another continuously, year in & year out, precisely because we
sought to run before we could walk, & kept falling. (d)Vula must not follow the
beaten path - it's a minefield. Vula must strike out on new road - to lay
indispensible foundations for a viable armed struggle by first creating,
building & consolidating a strong, resilient, extensive political network
that's self-protective, capable of providing protection & able to absorb
shocks. This is precisely task that Vula has started tackling with startling
vigour & effectiveness. Much has been achieved but much much more has yet to be
done, especially in consolidating ground already covered. (e)We therefore wish
to encourage an approach which maintains the priority of the main task & which
will ensure that nothing in the enemy-infested military field can lead to Adam
& Richard. We'd welcome your comments. (f)Re your 7.7.1. Reg's already
discussed along lines suggested by you. RM (the head) has accepted without
asking questions. We'll not mention Masha unless it becomes essential. As need
arises we'll proceed as proposed by yourselves. THREE COMING

Sent Dec. 1988, TC A1

THIRD OF THREE. (g)As to individual units, we feel we should go slow about
linking all individuals & units directly to a single centre. Re this: how big
is area covered by APC? In meantime, when PMC 'misses' any of its units or
contacts, we'll handle the matter. (h)You should for the moment leave Paul G
out. The IPC appears to be in intimate contact with him & has elaborate &
detailed plans. (i)Re RK & JZ: We're still discussing the question. Big problem
is that both comrades have just begun new projects that are vitally connected
to work at home. In any case January seems unreal as target date. (j)Your
scenaro for adjustment in HQ & foward areas once APCs really get going is most
instructive. A wider collective discussion on this will take place once APCs
begin to tick over. (k)For your information, the foward areas' RPMCs have been
dissolved & are in process of being replaced by small service machineries. When
the document which deals with this is complete it'll be sent to you. (l)Your
D&A queries will be checked with London. 8a. We're not happy about purchase of
weapons. Unfortunately we're still waiting for Lorenzo's promised supply of
silencers etc. 8b. Your budget looks reasonable. In meanwhile you should be
receiving 30 000 of which 10 000 is from Robin. We're trying to place more
funds into reserves for RR projects. 9a. All your security info is being passed
onto the right quarters. 9b. Please give all information re basis of suspicion
against Bulelani. 9c. Xulu: Please hold your horses. 10. Funds for Masha &
other Robin items: will reply separately. 11. Best regards & love from all to
all. And for Adam especially from Gemma & kids, whom Robin saw in Harare
recently. Still in process of healing but she's looking good. FINAL 

Received Mon. 19th Dec. 1988, TC A1

Wed. 19th. One: Pls standby to deposit the twenty thou pounds into the same
bank ac. as the last time. We will advise you by TV on Wed after lunch whether
to deposit the money. After you have done so asap on receipt of our advice send
us confirmation to our bleep (or TV) stating "merger terms accepted on ...
(date)" so that we can advise the other party to get independent confirmatn
from his bank of the deposit so that deal can be concluded here. (2) Adam will
be at Sollys around New Year. If necessary can be there by 28th. Prob is that
we cannot say from here where we can locate a DLB for person to deposit goods
you have for us & collect goods we have for you. If you think face to face
transfer between Adam & your man can take place without each revealing real
indentities then we could make arrangements from here (or Adam could send a 3rd
party to the face to face transfer). Advise what you think, so that we can
finalise arrangements. (3) Have not found anyone with copy of Umseb here. No
one seems to receive it thro post regularly. Will provide postal add but seems
this wont be reliable. Meanwhile we really have to find some other solution for
us to receive two copies timeously. Alles van die beste

Sent Tues. 20th Dec. 1988, TC A1

Twentieth: Thanx messg yesterday. Everyone gets worried when we don't hear from
you! > Decided against using person who'll be in Solly's on 28th. He's not
returning for some time & can't take anything more than disk. Have another
person we can send any time after New Year. Person can take/bring anything you
want including Umsebs & can go to Grace's if more convenient. Please let know
soon most suitable times/places but person prefers weekend; also your needs. >>
Ken taking break for week after Xmas so will revert to Eddie for period (S=883
0031; R=883 1623). Will give CE signal to TB when changeover takes place. >>>
Umseb: would it be poss for you to make litho plates from really good photos of
Umseb pages? Easier/safer to send by post film cassette or negatives than real
thing. You could enlarge & make as many prints as required & any size.
Alternatively you could use desktop publisher to create your own plates from
articles sent on disk. You would need: (a) hard disk computer; (b) desktop
publisher program {we can provide}; (c) laser printer; (d) someone with
computer skills. These all becoming common. >>>> Standing by to deposit doe
tomorrow. FIN

Received Sat. 24th Dec. 1988, TC A1

Fri. 23rd. One: Re Mainah: Is fact of her not having gone for training
symptomatic of what's out of sight is out of mind or of thinking from one
'crisis' to another? Agree we arrange to get her in & forget about the
training. Suggest infiltration should be legal entry either by road via Bay or
by air, again via Bay. So we think key issues are ensuring she get the
necessary documents IN TIME. These are: (a) Passport wh will enable her to
enter Bay. (b) Passport wh will enable her to enter RSA by air from Bay or by
road from Bay. Important that this should therefore have the right entry/exit
stamps. (c) Identity Book based on appearance she will live under inside, with
driver's licence entries. (Be a good idea if appearance in RSA p/port & ID book
are different so she can switch when inside).This also means ensuring she can
drive! Our experience is that wigs etc are OK for short bursts (about 2-4
hours), otherwise impractical. More effective to work on changes to natural
appearance eg if she grows hair long from now we can do lot to appearance by
styling, straightening, styling, dyeing etc. By growing it long from now gives
us flexibility when she comes is. Richard & I are still trying to grow our
hair! So while not discouraging you from special efforts re her disguise, we
urge more attention & time be given to above aspects. Pls advise what target
dates you think are feasible for entry on basis of above. Feb/March? ends 

Received Sat. 24th Dec. 1988, TC A1

Sat 24th: (One): One of the modems is giving trouble. Pls consider replacement.
(2) Eleanor K knows where to get a catalogue of wigs etc wh are available ready
made. With this comes a chart showing how to take measurements for orders. Pls
get both & send. I think the coy. is Banburys. (3) Re documents we need: First
a reminder re the booklet on propaganda, notes on engineering. Also, has there
been no Internal Party Bulletin during the period we've been away? Can we get
key strategy & policy resolutions of 2nd Cons. Conf. of ANC, & strategy
extracts from Green Book. What about videos? Where are they - in Lsk? Howards?
Four: We are testing your idea of Umseb on film. Arranging to make plates from
photos. Will report results. Have one table model offset (new) & one old. (5)
Pls advise deadline dates for articles for Umseb & AC. Have one article for
Umseb. 6. Pls push on radio modem. Seven: Have now 50 set left on A1 Data disk.
8. Will your courier be able to come to Grace's during weekend of 13th Jan.
What is [position re bookings? We could send courier from here to Oscars. But
wiull Oscars have copy of materials from Ken, plus camoflage Umseb & Jan 8th
properly for courier & attend to disk we send? Advise, as latter would be much
cheaper. 9. Hope S & Ken have a good weeks rest. Love   

Received Sun. 25th (or 26th?) Dec. 1988, TC A1

25th Sunday: Ein. Pls note Adam will be at Solly's around the end of Dec for
about a week. Which means during that period A1 will operate from Sollys &
where necessary Richard will operate with you with A2 from Grace's. If this
coincides with switching to Eddie pls ensure that Eddie has our numbers (both
bleep & phone) at Sollys, & the bleep at AGraces. (2) We are preparing a report
for Robin. It may well be that we may have to send it to you during the coming
period via TC because it will contain a number of items wh require that Robin's
outfit decides on them & the necessary action to be taken eg attendance at
Congress etc. Three. Re possibilities of courier - do ensure that Gemma is
forewarned in time so that she could if she has the chance prepare a disk for
Adam. In the meantime do advise how her op on 13th Dec went. Is Gemma back at
Oscars? etc. Greetings  

Sent Tues. 27th Dec. 1988, TC A1 (by Eddie)

FIRST OF 3: Patrick:1. Manah: neither "out of sight out of mind" nor crisis
management. Our friends have given continuous reassurances but do'nt deliver.
This even after Robin's trip to their country. 2: Silencers: as above.
3.Patrick will meet Abdul on 29.12.88 & will try to get actual ums & a disc
which has a brief given to x for GM. X took notes only. Therefore plse get
brief to GM. 4.sacos: movement proposes meet for after sacos march 89
conference.5. DM has been met. What follows is line taken by us. Plse make DM
copy of line which he's to take to GM. For DM to take to GM: I)swiss
project:thanks for your observations. There've been no developments to date
sincethis matter last raised by other side. Given their chronic unreliability
we'll need to proceed with extreme circumspection. Already their handling of
their own initiative has given doubts about their seriousness. II)internal
structures: we're pleased to note that you've now made start in this vital &
crucial area of work, we're happy with core structure, place of youth, women &
mabuto/volunteer corps instructure. We wish however to make following comments
& proposals: a>Re natal: regional structure has begun to take shape. It's
result of a pilot project we have been working on over a period of time.the
structure had been developed in light of heavy enemy infiltration of our
movement inside & outside country & special attention is paid to strictest
observance of conspiracy rules. Structure is linked directly to NEC through
Ndima, & work is proceeding remarkable well. We'd therefore propose that for
time being Natal region remains directly under NEC, while mechanisms are worked
out for necessary co-ordination at national level leading to more fully
integrated core structure.more

Sent Tues. 27th Dec. 1988, TC A1 (by Eddie)

Second of 3 :b> what we've said about Natal is true to a lesser degree on Jhb
area & WC where, using experience of natal, pilot projects have been set in
motion. c> the co-ordination referred to, especially as between NEC & national
level will be greatly facilitated by establishment of an efficient, reliable &
reasonable regular system of comms, such as have now have between NEC &
projects we have referred to. Re this we propose that d(jnr) serve as a channel
between you and us until a better means of comms has been developed-which we
are now working on. d>what above would seem to indicate is that while national
level concentrates on building EC & border areas,in Jhb & WC it should proceed
in a manner that minimises crossing of wires, & might even consider EC & border
areas as possible models for pilot projects for rest of country. The
experiences drawn from combined sets of projects could prove invaluable. e>We
note that meeting is to be held at which you intend to discuss & approve
composition of regional structures. We think this raises an important security
consideration. We understand that all comrades who were present at your first
indaba are well-known activists who are very likely under regular enemy
surveillance. This is made easier by fact that they are not living underground.
The possibility of one or more of them being interrogated is considerable. If
each has knowledge of whole core leadership in every region we are risking a
major national break-through by enemy. We do not think full meeting should go
beyond discussing and agreeing set of guidelines to be followed by each member
in identifying the best qualified people for manning regional structure. 1 more
too come

Sent Tues. 27th Dec. 1988, TC A1 (by Eddie)

last of 3 :f> We feel therefore that you consider approach with max. chance of
preventing all-round enemy break-through if one member of national collective
taken in. It is our opinion that, apart from the person who is charged with
task of initiation, setting up of a particular regional structure,you should be
only one who discusses with such person the names selected & who should
therefore have knowledge of composition of the regional structure & mandate to
authorise it. We are sure that all other members of national level will accept
reasons for such an approach. g> National collective should of course meet from
time to time to exchange experiences, consult on developments (both political
and organisational) and discuss general modalities of whole project including
question of growth. But, even though it may occasionally limit discussions,
full identity of regional structure & units which they create should be
restricted to a maximum degree possible. h>Since, for time being d(jnr) will be
our main channel of communication with you, could opportunities be created for
you to meet him, from time to time, completely alone(!)? We intend to use
d(jnr) channel as one way of sending messages which are only for your ears.
j>We are proceeding to act in regard to financial requirements. j>We shall
communicate further in regard to other matters raised in your very useful
communication. Arrangements will be made to meet mfundisi in march.|| KEN:
Think we wait for John instead sending courier on 13th as John goes week 
later. > Videos with Oscar. > Waiting for news of Gemma. She's F5-ed your TK.
end.

Sent Wed./Thurs. 28/29th Dec. 1988, TC A1 (in two parts by Eddie)

We saw DM and received full report on his initiatives. By now you should have
received Reggies message to Zizi which speaks for itself. The approach which
chacterised the first national get-together was clearly a recipe for another
Rivonia disaster. I hope you consider our message adequate to cover both the
latter point and protection for the structures you are busy with  at graces 2)
Discussion document on the "The path to power" is now ready and should reach
you soon on disk. After discussion at unit and district level it will be a
guide to the draft of the final chapter of the program. Your comments will be
needed by the 10th Feb. 3)We hope you are tackling the question of
representation at our congress from both Grace and Solly. We are of course
aware of security problems. But we are swayed by the fact that if we were all
inside we would have to organise congress with nationwide representation. But
we would take whatever measures that are practical to protect exact identy ect.
We welcome any special ideas from you. It would also be great to recieve a
message for our 7th congress from Zizi and any other Robin Islanders who are
achnowledged family members. 4) Masha's money. I have checked the question with
JZ who informs me as follows;His outfit cannot be expected to meet the costs of
travel plus payment of travel documents. They therefore deducted their outlay
on these two items.Its not worth persuing the matter. We hope the balance did
reach Masha.5) From your reports as well as discussion with Abdul ect it seems
that predictably you are doing splendid work in the growing family structures.
We hope the ammount forewarded (10,000 pounds)will cover the special immediate
needs you mentioned. Please dont hesitate to ask for further needs. 6) Yes we
are all very concerned about info on Africa Conf. Our security section has been
charged with the task of going into the question, and in the first place,
establishing into, in our ranks would have known of the various items set out.
Speculations on your part,( even if addressed only to me) would be
appreciated.7) I broached with RK the proposal concerning him. He is genuinely
over the moon about the idea. Reggie and I are consulting further on this.I
believe we should move even though Jan is a little ambitious.8) Ivan has ,I
hope, explained the Rory incident you complain about.In general ,by the way,
your legend continues to hold at this end. All kinds of friends and colleagues
(including RK etc) ask continually of you and express concern about your
condition. Our fat friend in SU is a marvellous operator and a consumate liar.
9) Really looking forward to UMS and AC articles. Next Ums deadline is 3rd week
of Jan.10 )by the way the SACOS meeting according to Reggie would be more
convenient after the congress in March. 11) Any further info on Bookshop
project. 12) Engineering notes and maps. I am working on your requests. Ends               

Recieved Thurs. 29th Dec. 1988, TC A1 (to Eddie)

Thurs 29: (1) Pls post Umseb & ACs regularly to ff addresses, starting with
current issue Umseb. Whenever something is sent advise us so that we can
intercept: a. Dr. R. Jogessar; (b) Dr. M.R. Govender; and c. Dr.D. Nagiah, all
three c/o Doctors' Quarters, R.K. Khan's Hospital, Chatsworth, Durban. Two:
Adam shld be at Sollys by Sat 31st for approx week & will be in touch from
there. Drei: Thanks to Robin for his msgs of 28th. Shall reply at length soon
including reporting re current state of Robins Outfits at Graces & Sollys,
comments from units & the Coord Cttees on Draft, Constitution as well as
proposals     re attendance at Congress. (4) Have prepared Reggies msg to GM -
waiting for DM to pass thro him. Five: Pls pass all love & New Year greetings
to Gemma & kids from Adam. Ditto to all you guys, & esp those who have been
slogging away at our comms. So far its been a marvellous effort. Adam's data
program is down to 45, wh means from this end we have sent at least 60 msgs,
leaving aside TV & disks & everythiong has worked smoothly, thanks to cde
manning comms. We think R & R are entitled to a toast on New Year's Day for we
shall be commencing our 6th month inside then. Love also to Patrick, Enrico et
al. 

Received Sat. 31st Dec 1988, TC A1 (to Eddie)

31st Sat. One:For Robin: Have an article for Umseb. re Inkatha. On reading it I
find it too long and diffuse.If I can find the time I shall work on it (it is
written by a cde. from  Pmb.) before sending it.(2):For Oscar:We are sending
herewith a report on one of the chiefs in Pmb. The report will probably be
broken into 6-7 parts to facilitate transmission. Eddie,pls.acknowledge to
Adam's bleep at Solly's.Is it OK if we send it in successive transmissions
without waiting for each transmission to be acknowledged step by step? Instead
you can acknowledge all at one time.(3): Here ffs. the report numbered in
parts: PART ONE: The ff. is a summary of an informal discussion held between
chief Mhlabunzima Maphumulu and certain members of UDF &Cosatu held in Pmb. on
23.11.88.(np) The discussion was informal &not to be publicised. (np) Re His
refusal to attend Gatsha's disciplinary enquiry: Chief Maphumulu had clearly
defied GB by refusing to attend the enquiry. He seems to be relying on legal
action to protect his Chieftainship. Altho his defiance against GB has won him
many admirers among the Chiefs he seems to be fighting this battle alone.He
does not seem to have a clear strategy. He is however determined to fight
GB.more.

Received Sat. 31st Dec. 1988, TC A1 (to Eddie)

31st PART3:Re Divisions within Inkatha: (a): He says that Dhlomo has no chance
of succeedig/ousting GB.Dhlomo altho intelligent &learned does not feature in
Zulu politics (has no status & respect in the KLA). He says Dhlomo does not
support the warlords but does not have any backbone to stand up to GB. (b):
Mdlalose:stupid! (c) Madide : intelligent but a drunkard.He supports Dhlomo
like Ben Jele(Imbali) but is afraid to stand up to GB. (np). The
warlords:Nsiaayezwa Zondi & Shayabantu Zondi (Pmb) are pressuring GB to kill
Mapumulu. According to him they tend to act independently but they are
supported by GB as are Gerome Mncwabe,Tulani Ngcobo & Aweta (Imbali). Shabalala
he says is a cheeky warlord who supports GB but is not loyal. W.Sabello is GB's
favourite warlord. (np)Re: Rebellious chiefs eg Chief Makanya (KwaMakuta) & the
chief of Kwandengezi. Mapumulu says that most of the new chiefs are relatively
young and more enlightened.They are not loyal to GB - tend to be
dissatisfied.The chiefs however  are afraid of GB.M believes that his defiance
of GB will encourage other chiefs to stand up to GB. What is needed is for the
chiefs to be organised.He is willing to assist in this process.He knows and
understands the chiefs well & has good relationships with many of them.He will
provide us with a full list of all the chiefs & a brief assesment of each.
(np). more

Received Sat. 31st Dec. 1988, TC A1 (to Eddie)

31st PART3:Re Divisions within Inkatha: (a): He says that Dhlomo has no chance
of succeedig/ousting GB.Dhlomo altho intelligent &learned does not feature in
Zulu politics (has no status & respect in the KLA). He says Dhlomo does not
support the warlords but does not have any backbone to stand up to GB. (b):
Mdlalose:stupid! (c) Madide : intelligent but a drunkard.He supports Dhlomo
like Ben Jele(Imbali) but is afraid to stand up to GB. (np). The
warlords:Nsiaayezwa Zondi & Shayabantu Zondi (Pmb) are pressuring GB to kill
Mapumulu. According to him they tend to act independently but they are
supported by GB as are Gerome Mncwabe,Tulani Ngcobo & Aweta (Imbali). Shabalala
he says is a cheeky warlord who supports GB but is not loyal. W.Sabello is GB's
favourite warlord. (np)Re: Rebellious chiefs eg Chief Makanya (KwaMakuta) & the
chief of Kwandengezi. Mapumulu says that most of the new chiefs are relatively
young and more enlightened.They are not loyal to GB - tend to be
dissatisfied.The chiefs however  are afraid of GB.M believes that his defiance
of GB will encourage other chiefs to stand up to GB. What is needed is for the
chiefs to be organised.He is willing to assist in this process.He knows and
understands the chiefs well & has good relationships with many of them.He will
provide us with a full list of all the chiefs & a brief assesment of each.
(np). more
